gmp343
======

..  code-block:: cpp

    gmp343(name, rx_pin, tx_pin /*, baud is by default 19200*/
        /*, config is by default SWSERIAL_8N1*/
        /*, invert is by default false*/);

Create a new serial driver for the Vaisala GMP343 CO2 sensor.

The driver configures the sensor into ``STOP`` mode, disables command echo,
sets the output format to ``CO2 ppm``, and then polls using ``SEND``.
The published payload is the parsed CO2 concentration in ppm.

Parameters
----------

- ``name``: the name it can be addressed via MQTT in the network.
  Inside the code it can be addressed via IN(name).

- ``rx_pin``: GPIO pin for the software serial RX line.

- ``tx_pin``: GPIO pin for the software serial TX line.

- ``baud``: serial baud rate (default 19200).

- ``config``: serial data configuration (default ``SWSERIAL_8N1``).

- ``invert``: set true to invert serial levels (default false).

The ``baud``, ``config``, and ``invert`` parameters stay exposed to support
pre-deployed sensors with non-default serial settings, including units that may
have been reconfigured earlier or left with unusual factory settings. The
asserted default operating mode for this driver remains 19200 baud,
``SWSERIAL_8N1``, and non-inverted serial.

The driver internally uses a 1000 ms poll interval, a 1500 ms response timeout,
and up to 3 retries for initialization and read commands.

Example
-------

..  code-block:: cpp

    gmp343(co2, D6, D7);

Wiring
------

- This sensor needs a TTL-RS232 adapter to connect to an ESP8266 or ESP32.

- Power the GMP343 sensor from an external power supply that matches the sensor
  specification.

- Connect the GMP343 serial ``TX`` line to the RS232 adapter serial ``TX`` line.

- Connect the GMP343 serial ``RX`` line to the RS232 adapter serial ``RX`` line.

- Connect the GMP343 serial ground to the RS232 adapter ground.

- Connect the controller ``rx_pin`` and ``tx_pin`` to the TTL side of the
  RS232 adapter.

- Depending on the adapter labeling, these TTL serial lines may need either
  crossed wiring or straight wiring.

- If communication does not work, swap the two TTL serial lines on the
  adapter ``RXD`` and ``TXD`` pins.

For example:

..  code-block:: cpp

    gmp343(co2, D6, D7);

In this example:

- ``D6`` is used as ``rx_pin`` and ``D7`` is used as ``tx_pin`` on the ESP side.

- These two pins connect to the TTL serial side of the RS232 adapter.

- If the sensor does not respond, try swapping these two serial lines on the
  adapter ``RXD`` and ``TXD`` pins.
